ZIP 312: Key generation (#883)
zcash/zips: zips/zip-0312.rst

trees [#protocol-saplingkeycomponents]_ [#protocol-orchardkeycomponents]_ are
adjusted as follows:

- The Spend validating key :math:`\mathsf{ak}` is replaced by the FROST group
  public key `PK` [#frost-protocol]_.
- The Spend authorizing key :math:`\mathsf{ask}` is replaced by the logical
  signing key that corresponds to the group public key `PK`. By design, this key
  is never explicitly constructed (unless trusted dealer key generation was
  used), and instead is represented by any sufficient subset of the participant
  FROST signing key shares `sk_i`.

The remaining parts of the Sapling and Orchard key trees SHOULD be generated
from a common spending key :math:`\mathsf{sk}` as described in
[#protocol-saplingkeycomponents]_ [#protocol-orchardkeycomponents]_, with the
exception of :math:`\mathsf{ask}` which SHOULD NOT be derived from
:math:`\mathsf{sk}` (and can't possibly be derived, if distributed key
generation was used). Deriving :math:`\mathsf{ask}` from :math:`\mathsf{sk}` MAY
be done if the application requires to backup the unsplit key, but this is
generally not recommended since it forces the usage of trusted dealer key

> generation.

Reviewer: This is equivocating between SHOULD NOT and MAY for the same possibility. (Note that NOT RECOMMENDED in caps means the same thing as SHOULD NOT.)

In order for all participants to agree on the value of :math:`\mathsf{sk}`, one
of the following options SHOULD be carried out:

- One participant generates a random :math:`\mathsf{sk}` and sends it to the
  others via an encrypted and authenticated channel. This option SHOULD be used
  if trusted dealer key generation was used, and the :math:`\mathsf{sk}` value
  can be sent along with the FROST shares during key generation. This option MAY
  be used if distributed key generation was used, if participants find it
  acceptable to trust one participant to correctly generate :math:`\mathsf{sk}`.
- Participants generate a :math:`\mathsf{sk}` in distributed manner using TODO.
  This option SHOULD be used if distributed key generation was used.
- (TODO: evaluate if it is secure) Participants derive :math:`\mathsf{sk}` from
  the public keys of the particpants (`PK_i` in [#FROST]_) via (TODO: specify

>   mechanism to hash all PK_i and derive sk)

Author: In the R&D Meeting today, @daira, @ebfull, @nuttycom and myself were discussing post-quantum Zcash preparations, and part of the approach we are discussing requires that `ivk` can be treated as a commitment to `sk`. I raised the point that with this draft proposal for FROST keygen, this is not the case. After discussion, we decided to suggest here that for FROST viewing keys, `rivk` be derived from `(sk, ak, nk)` instead of just `sk`. This is sufficient to ensure that `Commit^ivk` is effectively post-quantum binding (the argument is complicated, but a draft ZIP is forthcoming).

Reviewer 2: I don't see any problems. Is there a concrete suggestion on how to do the derivation?

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

In all cases, the specification in § 4.2.2 ‘Sapling Key Components’ or § 4.2.3 ‘Orchard Key Components’
MUST be followed when generating key components. If `draft-ecc-quantum-resilience` is adopted, the
$\mathsf{allow\_arbitrary\_ask}$ flag MUST be set to true for the last two options.

```

--------------

While key generation is out of scope for this ZIP and the FROST spec [#FROST]_,
it needs to be consistent with FROST; see [#frost-tdkg]_ for general guidance.

To define a spending or viewing key that uses FROST, the Sapling and Orchard key
trees [#protocol-saplingkeycomponents]_ [#protocol-orchardkeycomponents]_ are
adjusted as follows:

- The Spend validating key :math:`\mathsf{ak}` is replaced by the FROST group
  public key `PK` [#frost-protocol]_.
- The Spend authorizing key :math:`\mathsf{ask}` is replaced by the logical
  signing key that corresponds to the group public key `PK`. By design, this

>   key never exists, and instead is represented by each participant's FROST
>   signing key share `sk_i`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  key is never explicitly constructed, and instead is represented by any sufficient
  subset of the participant FROST signing key shares `sk_i`.
```
